README.md, before:


alxgbsn.co.uk
=============

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/alexgibson/alexgibson.github.com.svg?branch=admin)](https://travis-ci.org/alexgibson/alexgibson.github.com)
[![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/alexgibson/alexgibson.github.com/admin/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/alexgibson/alexgibson.github.com/admin/#info=devDependencies)

This is the source code repository for my [personal blog](http://alxgbsn.co.uk), a simple static site built using [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) and published on [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/).

Install
-------

```
gem install jekyll html-proofer
```

Run
---

To generate the static site and watch for changes:

```
jekyll serve
```

To automatically compile Sass, lint JS and watch for changes:

```
gulp
```

Test
----

Once the static site is built you can then validate the HTML and all site links by running:

```
htmlproof ./_site --href-ignore /feed/ --check-html --check-favicon --only-4xx
```

This will also be done automatically by Travis CI after every commit to the `admin` branch.

Deploy
------

To automatically build and deploy the static site to the `master` branch:

```
gulp deploy
```

Contributing
------------

If you would like to contribute, please make a pull request against the [admin branch](https://github.com/alexgibson/alexgibson.github.com/tree/admin). If you name your branch starting with `admin-`, [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/) will automatically build and test your changes when you open a pull request.

Commit message:

Use Bundler to manage site dependencies

README.md, after:


alxgbsn.co.uk
=============

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/alexgibson/alexgibson.github.com.svg?branch=admin)](https://travis-ci.org/alexgibson/alexgibson.github.com)
[![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/alexgibson/alexgibson.github.com/admin/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/alexgibson/alexgibson.github.com/admin/#info=devDependencies)

This is the source code repository for my [personal blog](http://alxgbsn.co.uk), a simple static site built using [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) and published on [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/).

Install
-------

Dependencies are handled using [Bundler](http://bundler.io/), which must be installed first:

```
gem install bundle
```

Site dependencies can then be installed using:

```
bundle install --path vendor/bundle
```

Run
---

To generate the static site and watch for changes:

```
bundle exec jekyll serve
```

To automatically compile Sass, lint JS and watch for changes:

```
gulp
```

Test
----

Once the static site is built you can then validate the HTML and all site links by running:

```
htmlproof ./_site --href-ignore /feed/ --check-html --check-favicon --only-4xx
```

This will also be done automatically by Travis CI after every commit to the `admin` branch.

Deploy
------

To automatically build and deploy the static site to the `master` branch:

```
gulp deploy
```

Contributing
------------

If you would like to contribute, please make a pull request against the [admin branch](https://github.com/alexgibson/alexgibson.github.com/tree/admin). If you name your branch starting with `admin-`, [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/) will automatically build and test your changes when you open a pull request.
